Student comment: Freshmen are in Massell Quad and North Quad. The biggest thing to avoid is getting a forced triple—most of which are in Shapiro (North) —or just the Shapiro basement at all. Besides that, Massell is much closer to a dining hall and the sciences whereas North is at the top of campus and is close to the humanities classes. Massell has tile floors in the rooms and is older as a building. While there are smaller common areas and communal kitchens in each building, the main common space is the Shapiro lounge, which also has a kitchen as well. North has carpeted floors and bigger common areas per building, which comes at the cost of each floor not always having a smaller one on the floor. The main kitchen area for the quad is in Polaris, a big common area that connects Scheffres and Gordon. North also has the gender neutral housing in Cable and Reitman, so if you opted for the potential to have a gender neutral room it’s likely that you’ll be there. Overall, there isn’t that much of a difference, it mostly comes down to what is more convenient for your classes and where your friends end up hanging out

Student comment: Former freshman/rising sophomore here!!! i lived in renfield hall, which is in massell. north is the better quad all around, but my personal ranking would be reitman and cable (north), renfield, shapiro (both in massell), gordon and scheffres (north) and then deroy and usen (massell). i did have carpet in renfield, and we got bigger desks than everyone else i know on campus. my room in renfield was a great size, as are most north rooms. shapiro has good sized rooms, deroy and usen tho...not so much. deroy (and usen i think) both have tile. north is more convenient for everything upper campus, especially the humanities buildings and usdan student center, but massell is closer to the main dining hall, science buildings, shapiro campus center, and the fine arts buildings. i would personally hope to be not on the third floor though! no elevators, not the best to come back from a day of classes and have to climb all that. the perk is that you don't have to worry about upstairs neighbors, though. if you have more questions feel free to dm me!

Student comment: yes. The only thing you can choose is ur preference for a single, double, triple, and what type of floor (male, female, co-ed, or gender inclusive). There are really no “bad” dorms on campus, there’s good ones, great ones, and okay ones. I lived in north quad this year, and besides the 12ish minute walk to lower campus for my arts classes I have no real complaints. Massell is “fine” from what I’ve heard, but I didn’t live there, so

Student comment: I live in Massel this year and it was nice. You have a pond in the quad and it’s right next to Sherman Dining Hall, the only dining halls that’s open over the weekends and breaks. A bit annoying if you are taking humanities classes as you need to walk all the way up hill

Student comment: I’m currently in Massell and genuinely I think that it is not that bad, the buildings compared to North Quad is a bit older while North is more new. I like it since it near Sherman dining hall, but hate it that I have to go up the hill every morning other than that it’s actually fine. I live in Shapiro, and my floor is separate to two sides and each has different genders. There is laundry in the basement, I think it is big there are about 8-10 washers and 6 dryers which is not bad imo. And yes roommate is random you can’t choose :( sadly