Brandeis Considering Demolition of East Quad Following Completion of New Residence Hall

Following the completion of the new residence hall, which is currently under construction on the lower campus, Brandeis is considering plans to demolish East Quad. This plan was first revealed to The Hoot during our exclusive interview with Arthur Levine in early October as something that was a possibility. East Quad has approximately 400 beds, while the new residence hall will have around 650, meaning that the demolition will not reduce the number of beds that are available to students. The new residence hall is expected to be completed in the spring of 2027 and available for students in the Fall 2027 semester.

East Quad was originally built in 1964 for the purpose of housing sophomores and upperclassmen. East consists of two buildings, Hassenfeld and Pomerantz. Dorms in East consist of traditional-style singles and doubles. The average single in East is between 100 and 140 square feet, and the average double is 200 square feet. East is located in the upper campus near the Intercultural Center and Skyline Hall.

Today, many students refer to East as the least desirable living space on campus due to rodent issues and the lack of air conditioning. It has also faced criticism for its narrow hallways, which do not meet modern standards under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The ADA requires hallways to be at least 36 inches wide. Students have previously compared the hallways in East to

Because East Quad was built prior to the enactment of the ADA, it is not required to meet modern standards.

According to a university spokesperson, “No decisions have been made by the University regarding the long-term disposition of the East Quad space. The new residence hall scheduled to come online next year will have capacity to house significantly more residents than East, which could present the opportunity to reimagine the East space for future residences and dining facility opportunities.”

Why are meal points even a thing?

UTC’s performance of ‘Clue: On Stage’ truly excelled

A.I. video generators are terrible for society

The Equal Time Rule is outdated and should be repealed

Am I the only one that liked the ending of Stranger Things?

How is Bill Belichick not a Hall of Famer?

Enough is enough. It’s time to abolish ICE

Chuck Schumer needs to step down as Senate Minority Leader

The Primary from Hell: Responding to the 2026 Maine Senate Primary

The Hoot interviews President Arthur Levine

Brandeis rises in FIRE’s free speech rankings, but still earns an F

Brandeis ranking continues to drop for third consecutive year

Why Democrats shouldn’t be afraid of the upcoming government shutdown fight

Parking Office changes leave juniors without parking

Arthur Levine signs letter criticizing government overreach

Track and field teams kick off outdoor season

ADL gives Brandeis an A on annual antisemitism report card

Three Judges compete in NCAA indoor track finals

Why the Department of Education should not be eliminated

Judges track and field attends UAA Championships and Last Chance Meet

Swim teams end season at UAA championships

Track team breaks their own school record

Fencing team earns two medals for foil performance

Waltham mayor and other local leaders speak at VoteDeis panel

Elon Musk does Nazi salute at inauguration rally

Track and field season starts with men’s team setting new school record

Brandeis fencing team attends Northeast Fencing Conference

Brandeis’ major declaration process is too complicated

Why pardoning Hunter Biden was the right thing to do

Men’s and women’s fencing face rough start to season

Trump won again. How did we get here?

Don’t blame Taylor Swift for climate change

Wrongful death lawsuit filed against Brandeis and three of its police officers

Brandeis sued for alleged price-fixing scheme

Brandeis’ ‘shoulder months’ leave Skyline students unnecessarily uncomfortable

Brandeis cross country attends Connecticut College Invitational

Climate change is real. It’s time to do something

What Brandeis should look for in our next president

Judges cross-country teams attend UMass Dartmouth and Bates Invitationals

Legal Studies department hosts event on Trump immunity decision

Why we shouldn’t have evening recitations

Brandeis’ changes to the meal exchange program were wrong and deceptive

‘Psych’: the greatest TV show of all time

A student perspective on the language debate

Hoot Recommends: Favorite Winter Olympic Sport