Student comment: I lived in a natural triple in gordon in north quad, and I really enjoyed it. North quad is my personal favorite of the freshman housing with fairly spacious dorms, good common rooms and laundry, and I liked how it was set away on upper campus. It doesn’t have a dining hall though, and when Usdan is closed on the weekends you’ll have to walk down campus to Sherman dining hall. East is definitely the worst set of dorms, but they only house freshmen there when they run out of housing. You shouldn’t worry about that, your class is the smallest they’ve admitted since pre 2018.

Student comment: As for housing, you can’t choose where you live as a first year, but rather you fill out a form answering basic questions about your living style (I.e. are you a day or night person, do you want to live on a mixed-gender floor, what are your basic interests, etc.) Then, you get assigned a hall and most likely one roommate (small chance you’ll get a single or natural triple, be thankful that Brandeis stopped over admitting so you don’t have to worry about being put in a lofted/forced triple, Shapiro basement, or East quad as a first-year).

Student comment: DCL permits students to bring personal mini-fridges, provided they are under 35 inches tall or 3.1 cubic feet in size. If it does not meet 35 inches requirement, then, DCL could forfeit it during dorm inspections. Only one fridge is typically allowed per room, making it recommended to coordinate with roommates. Alternatively, students can rent approved, all-in-one MicroFridge units directly from the university, but it checper to purchase your own minifridge and a minimicrowave.

Student comment: For freshmen, I don't think you'll get any choice about where you're housed but there are two quads that are roughly similar in quality (both built around the 1960s I think). Massell is maybe slightly better and in a more convenient part of campus than North but again there's not much you can do to get one or the other. But, the more friends you make, the more opportunities you'll have to at least hang out in different spaces/buildings, and housing quality gets a lot better after freshman or sophomore year.

Student comment: i live on the third floor of renfield hall in massell, i think it's the nicest building in the quad based on what i've seen from the others, but reitman and cable in north are soooo much better. bigger and nicer rooms and bathrooms. the locations of both quads are pretty solid. massell is in the center of campus pretty much, and north is close to the humanities quad and usdan.

Student comment:Freshman here,

usdan starts off decent then deteriorates. All the meal swipe places are pretty good. Sherman is horrible yearlong.

There’s 2 freshman housing units: massell and north

Massell: Very social, has fine shyt, cramped and old, very welcoming but sometimes renfield smells. Bathrooms are decent atleast if ur a guy cuz it’s mostly girls here. Like i live in massell and my floor is almost all girls so i get my own bathroom basically. The massell interior is kinda dirty excluding bathrooms but it’s bearable. Highly recommend massell.

North: Very antisocial, very spacious and a lot newer. Unless ur in reitman or maybe cable the bathrooms are nasty. Especially the sheffres floor 1 boys bathroom. north is also full of nerds ppl with huge egos. Also those northerners like to steal DoorDash orders, so if u ever get food delivery, just make sure the food is brought directly to you.

Student comment: i thought massel quad was quite nice, but a lot of people would say all freshmen dorms suck. east is by far the worst dorm on campus though.
