Information for First-Years, Midyears and Transfers

Welcome to Brandeis!

All first-year students entering in the fall are assigned to either Massell, North or East Quad. Students who do not complete a housing exemption or request to commute will be assigned to on-campus housing (Fall and Spring semesters).

An important part of the university experience is meeting new people who are different from you and learning to communicate and form relationships with them. It is important that you broaden your understanding of other regions and cultures and stretch beyond your comfort zone. For that reason, we do not encourage roommate requests.

First-year students who wish to request on-campus housing must complete the First-Year Housing Application on

. Information for Fall housing applications will be available in May and housing assignments will be released late summer.

Portal for application and assignment information. Due to the size of the incoming class, room changes may not be possible. For urgent matters, email

, but please understand there will be a delay in the reply.

Midyear students entering in January will be assigned housing within proximity to other midyear students. They will not be placed in senior-exclusive areas. More information about housing assignments will be provided after the Midyear Housing Application closes. Students living on campus must complete the Housing Application in

to be matched with a roommate. Midyear students must complete the Midyear Housing Application on MyHousing. Information for Midyear housing applications will be available in the fall.

All members of the midyear class are required to live on campus unless they complete the On-Campus Housing Exemption Request and are have their housing requirement waived.

First-year students will live on campus for their first full academic year. Students entering in the Spring are required to live on campus for the semester. Students who wish to commute must complete an On-Campus Housing Exemption Request Form before the deadline for the First-year Housing Application

. Students who do not complete a housing exemption or request to commute will be assigned on-campus housing.

for the On-Campus Housing Exemption Request, located within the "Housing Applications and Forms" tab on the left.

We are excited for you to join our community at Brandeis! While housing is not guaranteed, transfer students may receive housing on a rolling basis depending on availability. Priority is given to international and out-of-state students. Transfer students are housed based on their entering class year.

Transfer students may request housing by filling out the Housing Waitlist Form in the

. Please note that housing is not guaranteed for transfer students.

Students who require medical, psychological, or disability accommodations should submit a Housing Accommodation Request. Requests received after the deadline will still be accepted, but there may be a delay in reviewing the forms due to the volume of requests. Late requests for housing accommodations are not guaranteed, but assignments will be updated to meet the student's needs as space permits. Please see the

website for more details regarding the request process.

for more information regarding move-in and the orientation program.